---
date: "2013-03-03T00:00:00Z"
tags: lean/精益
title: 还可以这样被提醒
---

之前一直使用 RTM 服务接受任务到期提醒。

    terminal - todo.txt - remind - (awesome WM 提醒)
               ￣￣￣￣￣￣￣￣￣
                        \
                         https://www.rememberthemilk.com
                                        \
                                        (iOS/Android 提醒)

1. 除了 todo.txt 还需要额外维护一个 remind 文件
2. remember the milk 服务按年收费，属于长期投入

最近发现一个 todo.txt [增强版][1]，以及一个 pushover [服务][2]。结合两者可以实现：

    terminal - todo.txt
                   \
                    https://pushover.net
                            \
                            (iOS/Android 提醒)

1. todo.txt 易用性实用性美观性得到极大改善

        m:marker and m:(a marker with spaces), especially
        
        A:2012-04-01 ... Z:2012-01-01 prioritize on date.
        d:2012-12-12 deprioritize after date.
        a:42         "also, <a href>" related to task number. No action on do and trash.
        a:(gg foo)   explicit search URL for the browse action.
        l:42         unidirectionally linked to task number, which becomes done (but not
                     trashed) recursively.
                     There is no marker for bidirectional linking; if you want to mark
                     one task done when another is done and vice versa, they are
                     probably duplicates, and one of them should be deleted.
                     Alternatively, cross-link them separately: todo.sh dup link 42 43
        k:42         kill task number, which is trashed when this task is done.
        j:42         bidirectionally joined / contradependent with task number;
                     when one is done, the other(s) are trashed recursively.
        j:goal       joined to goal; when this is done, other tasks with the same goal
                     are trashed.
        t:2010-10-10 future task becomes due on the date, created via todo.sh schedule
        u:2011-12-01 do-until, ultimate, latest due date until the task should have been
                     done.
        w:42         waiting for task number, created via todo.sh wait ITEM# for 42
        w:Gina       waiting for person / event, created via todo.sh wait ITEM# Gina
        x:42         trash as a duplicate of task 42; useful as an alternative to
                     todo.sh dup del when editing in other clients.
        x:2011-12-01 trash on date.
        z:2011-12-01 do-until-then-trash, ultimate, latest due date; after it, the task
                     is trashed.

  2. pushover 服务免费，客户端安装时一次性收费(￥30)

todo.txt (增强版)并没有默认支持 pushover，找了一个简易版 todo.txt 的插件并改造了一下：

<script src="https://gist.github.com/s5unty/5075704.js"></script>

[1]: https://github.com/inkarkat/todo.txt-cli-ex.git
[2]: https://pushover.net/
